.TH RCC 1 "2026-06-08" "0.8.0" "Raccoon Manual"
.SH NAME
rcc \- macOS companion toolkit
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rcc
[\fIcommand\fR] [\fIoptions\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
Raccoon is a lightweight Bash toolkit for macOS that surfaces system diagnostics,
security audits, hardware health, network state, and developer workflows through
a single CLI with an optional Bubble Tea TUI.
.SH COMMANDS
.SS Core Tools
.TP
.B upgrade
Update Homebrew, pip, npm, gem, rustup, nvm.
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-dry-run\fR, \fB\-n\fR
Show what would be upgraded.
.RE
.TP
.B apps
Update installed GUI apps in four layers: Mac App Store (\fBmas\fR), Homebrew
casks (\fB\-\-greedy\fR), the Homebrew cask catalog (7000+ apps matched to
/Applications by name, no install required), and Sparkle feeds
(\fBSUFeedURL\fR). Apps with built-in auto-updaters are skipped by default.
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-dry-run\fR, \fB\-n\fR
Show what would be updated.
.TP
\fB\-\-no-catalog\fR, \fB\-\-no-sparkle\fR
Skip the Homebrew catalog (layer 3) or the Sparkle feed check (layer 4).
.TP
\fB\-\-auto-launch\fR
Open auto-updater apps so their internal updater triggers.
.RE
.TP
.B audit
Security audit (30+ checks).
.RS
.TP
\fB\-\-deep\fR
Full audit with all checks (requires sudo).
.TP
\fB\-\-fix\fR
Auto\-fix issues where possible.
.TP
\fB\-\-dry-run\fR
Show fixes without applying.
.TP
\fB\-\-force\fR
Apply fixes without confirmation.
.TP
\fB\-\-quiet\fR
Output just pass/warn/fail counts.
.TP
\fB\-\-json\fR, \fB\-\-csv\fR, \fB\-\-html\fR
Output format.
.TP
\fB\-\-explain\fR
Print a plain-language note under each failing or warning check (text output
only; never pollutes \fB\-\-json\fR/\fB\-\-csv\fR). Composable with any other flag.
.TP
\fB\-\-remediation\fR
Print a client-facing intervention report: problems found, problems resolved
since the previous run, and what still needs doing. Honours \fB\-\-report\fR,
\fB\-\-md\fR, and \fB\-\-rtf\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-baseline\fR, \fB\-\-baseline\-diff\fR, \fB\-\-baseline\-reset\fR
Save the current state as a signed reference baseline (\fI~/.raccoon/baseline.json\fR),
compare the current state against it (regressions since that moment), or remove it.
.TP
\fB\-\-schedule\fR \fIdaily|weekly|monthly|status|remove\fR
Schedule a recurring deep audit via a LaunchAgent (9:00 AM), show whether one is
active, or remove it. \fB\-\-watch\fR is an alias for \fB\-\-schedule weekly\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-profile\fR \fINAME\fR, \fB\-\-profile\-save\fR \fINAME\fR, \fB\-\-profile\-list\fR, \fB\-\-profile\-delete\fR \fINAME\fR
Per-client profiles in \fI~/.raccoon/profiles/<name>/\fR: load (config, branding,
and a profile baseline), save the current state, list, or delete.
.TP
\fB\-\-share\fR
Publish the Markdown report as an anonymous public GitHub Gist and print (and
copy) the link. Network failure is non-fatal. Not available with \fB\-\-quiet\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-sheet\fR, \fB\-\-hours\fR \fIN\fR, \fB\-\-notes\fR \fITEXT\fR
Generate a fill-in intervention sheet (Markdown, or RTF with \fB\-\-rtf\fR) with
client, Mac, problems before/after, hours worked, and notes. Honours
\fB\-\-profile\fR, \fB\-\-report\fR, and \fB\-\-remediation\fR.
.TP
\fB\-\-md\fR, \fB\-\-rtf\fR
Client\-ready report as Markdown or RTF (RTF opens in TextEdit/Word). The report
is data\-driven: it renders every check the audit produces, so new checks appear
automatically with no change to the report code.
.TP
\fB\-\-client\fR \fINAME\fR, \fB\-\-shop\fR \fINAME\fR, \fB\-\-tech\fR \fINAME\fR
Optional branding for the report header/footer. With none set, a default
Raccoon header/footer is used.
.TP
\fB\-\-report\fR \fIFILE\fR
Save report to file. When no explicit format flag is given, the format is
inferred from the file extension (\fI.md\fR, \fI.rtf\fR, \fI.json\fR, \fI.csv\fR, \fI.html\fR).
.TP
\fB\-\-history\fR
Show previous audit runs.
.TP
\fB\-\-diff\fR
Compare with previous run.
.TP
\fB\-\-watch\fR
Schedule weekly audit via LaunchAgent.
.TP
\fB\-\-notify\fR
Send notification on completion.
.RE
.SS System
.TP
.B network
Network interfaces, Wi\-Fi signal, DNS, routing.
.TP
.B wifi
Wi\-Fi interface, active network, known SSIDs, and saved Keychain passwords
(\fB\-\-active\fR, \fB\-\-known\fR, \fB\-\-passwords\fR, \fB\-\-json\fR).
.TP
.B fleet
Security audit across multiple Macs via SSH. See the FLEET section.
.TP
.B disk
Disk space, APFS container, SMART status. \fBdisk large\fR (or
\fBdisk --large [PATH] [--min SIZE] [--top N]\fR) lists the biggest files.
.TP
.B memory
Processes sorted by memory usage.
.TP
.B ports
Open ports and listening services.
.TP
.B battery
Battery health, cycle count, temperature.
.TP
.B backup
Time Machine status and last backup date.
.SS Developer
.TP
.B ssh
SSH key generation and management.
.TP
.B git
Git status, branches, stash, cleanup.
.TP
.B docker
Docker images, containers, volumes.
.TP
.B xcode
Simulators, derived data, SPM packages.
.SS Maintenance
.TP
.B env
Shell environment and PATH summary.
.TP
.B startup
Launch agents and login items. \fBstartup clean\fR (or \fBstartup --clean\fR)
interactively removes orphaned user launch agents — those whose executable no
longer exists — backing up each plist to \fI~/.raccoon/fix-backups/\fR first.
.TP
.B trash
Trash contents and size.
.TP
.B fonts
Font duplicates and corrupted fonts.
.TP
.B history
Shell command history analysis.
.TP
.B certs
SSL certificates and expiration.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-version, \-V
Print version.
.TP
.B help, \-\-help, \-h
Show help.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Client\-ready Markdown report with full branding:
.EX
rcc audit \-\-md \-\-report client.md \-\-client "Jane Doe" \\
    \-\-shop "MacFix Pro" \-\-tech "Mario Rossi"
.EE
.TP
Branded RTF report (opens in TextEdit/Word):
.EX
rcc audit \-\-rtf \-\-report client.rtf \-\-shop "MacFix Pro"
.EE
.TP
Markdown to stdout (pipeable, default Raccoon header):
.EX
rcc audit \-\-md
.EE
.SH FLEET
Run audits across many Macs over SSH and aggregate the results.
.TP
.B rcc fleet audit \fR[\fB\-\-hosts\fR \fIFILE\fR] [\fB\-\-parallel\fR \fIN\fR] [\fB\-\-report\fR \fIFILE\fR] [\fB\-\-json\fR] [\fB\-\-explain\fR]
Audit every configured host (default 5 parallel connections).
.TP
.B rcc fleet status
Quick SSH reachability check for every host.
.TP
.B rcc fleet add \fIHOST\fR, rcc fleet remove \fIHOST\fR, rcc fleet list
Manage the hosts file.
.PP
Hosts live in \fI~/.raccoon/fleet.conf\fR, one per line (\fB#\fR comments). Each
line is \fIuser@host\fR with an optional \fI:port\fR and an optional
\fB\-\-profile\fR \fINAME\fR. Connections use key auth only
(\fBBatchMode=yes\fR); no passwords are stored. The remote Mac needs only bash,
macOS, and an SSH server \(em Raccoon is streamed over stdin, not installed, and
sudo checks are skipped automatically.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.raccoon/
Installation directory.
.TP
.I ~/.raccoon/audit-history/
Audit history JSON files.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B SCRIPT_DIR
Set by the rcc entrypoint; used internally by commands.
.SH BUGS
Report issues at https://github.com/thousandflowers/Raccoon/issues
.SH LICENSE
MIT
